Example data provided here are generated artificially. All input files are tab delimited text files.

#### 1. Gene Annotation and Expression File (`./example_data/Gene_Exp.txt`)
- First 5 columns specify chromosome number, gene start position, gene end position, target gene ID, gene name (optional, could be the same as gene ID).
- Sample gene expression data start from the 6th column. 

| CHROM | GeneStart | GeneEnd |   TargetID      | GeneName | sample1 | sample...|
|:-----:|:---------:|:-------:|:---------------:|:--------:|:-------:|:--------:|
|   1   |    100    |   200   |     ENSG0000    |     X    |   0.2   |     ...  |


#### 2. Genotype File
- Sorted by chromosome and base pair position, zipped by `bgzip`, and tabixed.
- Example tabix command, `tabix -f -p vcf *.vcf.gz`.

- vcf file (`./example_data/Genotype/example.vcf.gz`)
	- Genotype data start from the 10th column.
	- More information about VCF file format: http://www.internationalgenome.org/wiki/Analysis/Variant%20Call%20Format/vcf-variant-call-format-version-40/

	| CHROM | POS |  ID | REF | ALT | QUAL | FILTER | INFO | FORMAT |  sample1 | sample...|
	|:-----:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:----:|:------:|:----:|:------:|:--------:|:--------:|
	|   1   | 100 | rs1 |  C  |  T  |   .  |  PASS  |   .  |  GT:DS | 0/0:0.01 |    ...   |

- dosages file
	- The first 5 columns are of the same format as VCF file.
	- Dosage genotype data start from the 6th column.

	| CHROM | POS |  ID | REF | ALT | sample1 | sample...|
	|:-----:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:-------:|:--------:|
	|   1   | 100 | rs1 |  C  |  T  |   0.01  |    ...   |

#### 3. PED File (`./example_data/example_PED.ped`)
- More information bout PED file format: http://zzz.bwh.harvard.edu/plink/data.shtml#ped

| FAM_ID | IND_ID | FAT_ID | MOT_ID | SEX | PHENO | COV1 | COV...|
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:---:|:-----:|:---:|:---:|
|   11A  |   11A  |    X   |    X   |  1  |  0.2  | 0.3 |...|

#### 4. Asso_Info file (`./example_data/Asso_Info/Asso_Info_*.txt`)
- Two columns with the first column specifying the Phenotype (P) and Covariate variables (C) from the PED file, and the second column specifying the corresponding variable names in the PED file. The variables specified in the Asso_Info file will be used in TWAS.

|P|PHENO|
|:-----:|:---:|
|C|COV1|
|C|COV2|
|C|SEX|

#### 5.Zscore File (`./example_data/example_Zscore/*_GWAS_Zscore.txt.gz`)
- Sorted by chromosome and base pair position, zipped by `bgzip`, and tabixed
- Example tabix command, `tabix -f -p vcf *_Zscore.txt.gz`. The first 4 columns are of the same format as VCF file.

| CHROM | POS | REF | ALT | Zscore |
|:-----:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:------:|
|   1   | 100 |  C  |  T  |  0.01  |

#### 6. Genome Block Annotation file (`./example_data/block_annotation_EUR.txt`)
- The block annotation file is a tab delimited text file with head row of `CHROM Start End`, denoting the chromosome number, starting position, ending position. Reference genotype files shall be of one per chromosome, or one for the whole genome-wide variants. Example block annotation file for European samples is provided `./TIGAR/example_data/block_annotation_EUR.txt`. 

| CHROM |   Start   |   End   |
|:-----:|:---------:|:-------:|
|   1   |    100    | 20000   |  

- Block annotation files of other ethnicities can be adopted from the genome segmentation generated by `LDetect`, https://bitbucket.org/nygcresearch/ldetect-data/src/master/.
